---
title: Thank you.
description: The practice of collective thankfulness can change our perspective,
  if only for a moment, and reminds us of the richness of our lives.
date: 2023-11-23T10:29:30.490Z
tags:
  - thanksgiving
draft: false
---
Today is Thanksgiving here in the United States. 

It’s my favorite holiday: slow down, gather and feast with friends and family, and be intentionally grateful for things? 

Yes, please.

We’re hosting a big crew at our house today. There’s a tradition in our home that before we dig into the big Thanksgiving meal, everyone goes around the table and says something they’re thankful for. 

The exercise straddles the line between sincerity and social awkwardness, and the teenagers like to ham it up for good effect. But that vulnerability is good for the soul. It may be a brief expression, but the practice of collective thankfulness can change our perspective, if only for a moment, and reminds us of the richness of our lives.

No design systems talk today, just a sincere thank you for being a part of this community. 

I know this has been a difficult year for some of the people on this list, personally professionally, and otherwise. My heart goes out to those of you struggling to find something to be grateful for. I’m reminded of this quote by Viktor Frankl:

> Everything can be taken from a man but one thing: the last of the human freedoms—to choose one's attitude in any given set of circumstances, to choose one's own way… When we are no longer able to change a situation, we are challenged to change ourselves. 

Wishing you all the best.